README.md, before:

# DevOps Apprenticeship: Project Exercise

> If you are using GitPod for the project exercise (i.e. you cannot use your local machine) then you'll want to launch a VM using the [following link](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/CorndelWithSoftwire/DevOps-Course-Starter). Note this VM comes pre-setup with Python & Poetry pre-installed.

## System Requirements

The project uses poetry for Python to create an isolated environment and manage package dependencies. To prepare your system, ensure you have an official distribution of Python version 3.8+ and install Poetry using one of the following commands (as instructed by the [poetry documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#system-requirements)):

### Poetry installation (Bash)

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

### Poetry installation (PowerShell)

```powershell
(Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://install.python-poetry.org -UseBasicParsing).Content | py -
```

## Dependencies

The project uses a virtual environment to isolate package dependencies. To create the virtual environment and install required packages, run the following from your preferred shell:

```bash
$ poetry install
```

You'll also need to clone a new `.env` file from the `.env.template` to store local configuration options. This is a one-time operation on first setup:

```bash
$ cp .env.template .env  # (first time only)
```

The `.env` file is used by flask to set environment variables when running `flask run`. This enables things like development mode (which also enables features like hot reloading when you make a file change). There's also a [SECRET_KEY](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/config/#SECRET_KEY) variable which is used to encrypt the flask session cookie.

## Running the App

Once the all dependencies have been installed, start the Flask app in development mode within the Poetry environment by running:
```bash
$ poetry run flask run
```

You should see output similar to the following:
```bash
 * Serving Flask app "app" (lazy loading)
 * Environment: development
 * Debug mode: on
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
 * Restarting with fsevents reloader
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 226-556-590
```
Now visit [`http://localhost:5000/`](http://localhost:5000/) in your web browser to view the app.


### Testing The Application

Install dependency PYTEST
```bash
$ poetry add pytest
```

There is a file called test_view_model.py which contains the test of the ViewModel function

```bash
$ poetry run pytest
```

Commit message:

updated readme to include testing

README.md, after:

# DevOps Apprenticeship: Project Exercise

> If you are using GitPod for the project exercise (i.e. you cannot use your local machine) then you'll want to launch a VM using the [following link](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/CorndelWithSoftwire/DevOps-Course-Starter). Note this VM comes pre-setup with Python & Poetry pre-installed.

## System Requirements

The project uses poetry for Python to create an isolated environment and manage package dependencies. To prepare your system, ensure you have an official distribution of Python version 3.8+ and install Poetry using one of the following commands (as instructed by the [poetry documentation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#system-requirements)):

### Poetry installation (Bash)

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

### Poetry installation (PowerShell)

```powershell
(Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://install.python-poetry.org -UseBasicParsing).Content | py -
```

## Dependencies

The project uses a virtual environment to isolate package dependencies. To create the virtual environment and install required packages, run the following from your preferred shell:

```bash
$ poetry install
```

You'll also need to clone a new `.env` file from the `.env.template` to store local configuration options. This is a one-time operation on first setup:

```bash
$ cp .env.template .env  # (first time only)
```

The `.env` file is used by flask to set environment variables when running `flask run`. This enables things like development mode (which also enables features like hot reloading when you make a file change). There's also a [SECRET_KEY](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/config/#SECRET_KEY) variable which is used to encrypt the flask session cookie.

## Running the App

Once the all dependencies have been installed, start the Flask app in development mode within the Poetry environment by running:
```bash
$ poetry run flask run
```

You should see output similar to the following:
```bash
 * Serving Flask app "app" (lazy loading)
 * Environment: development
 * Debug mode: on
 * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
 * Restarting with fsevents reloader
 * Debugger is active!
 * Debugger PIN: 226-556-590
```
Now visit [`http://localhost:5000/`](http://localhost:5000/) in your web browser to view the app.


### Testing The Application

Install dependency PYTEST
```bash
$ poetry add pytest
```

There are 2 tests integrated with this application, 1 to do a basic model test and the other to test the API calls.
The testing simulates the application being created and run without making external calls.
##todo_app\tests\test_view_model.py
This test proves the application model is valid

##todo_app\tests\test_client.py
This test simulates the Trello API calls and utilises test sample data as returned data.
```bash
$ poetry run pytest
```
